Add Kafka operator docs (2.1.1) (#3972)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kommander/2.1/workspaces/applications/catalog-applications/kafka-operator/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Kafka Operator
title: Kafka Operator
menuWeight: 20
excerpt: Information about the Kafka Operator
---

## Overview

> [Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/) is an open-source distributed event streaming platform used for high-performance data pipelines, streaming analytics, data integration, and mission-critical applications. The [Kafka Operator](https://banzaicloud.com/docs/supertubes/kafka-operator/) is a Kubernetes operator to automate provisioning, management, autoscaling, and operations of Apache Kafka clusters deployed to Kubernetes. It works by watching custom resources, such as `KafkaClusters`, `KafkaUsers`, and `KafkaTopics` to provision underlying Kubernetes resources (i.e `StatefulSets`) required for a production-ready Kafka Cluster.

Reviewer: grammar nit

```suggestion
[Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/) is an open-source distributed event streaming platform used for high-performance data pipelines, streaming analytics, data integration, and mission-critical applications. The [Kafka Operator](https://banzaicloud.com/docs/supertubes/kafka-operator/) is a Kubernetes operator to automate provisioning, management, autoscaling, and operations of Apache Kafka clusters deployed to Kubernetes. It works by watching custom resources, such as `KafkaClusters`, `KafkaUsers`, and `KafkaTopics`, to provision underlying Kubernetes resources (i.e `StatefulSets`) required for a production-ready Kafka Cluster.
```

Author: fixed in 2fcad2ad6824e86564597d3ab4a8c318b7102fda

## Install

> 

Reviewer 2: Same as commented above; an introductory sentence or two is always helpful.

1.  Follow the generic installation instructions for workspace catalog applications on the [Application Deployment](../application-deployment/) page.

1.  Within the `AppDeployment`, update the `appRef` to specify the correct `kafka-operator` App. You can find the `appRef.name` by listing the available `Apps` in the workspace namespace:

    ```bash
    kubectl get apps -n ${WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE}
    ```

> For details on custom configuration for the operator, please refer to the [Kafka operator Helm Chart documentation](https://github.com/banzaicloud/koperator/tree/master/charts/kafka-operator#configuration).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to the [Kafka operator Helm Chart documentation](https://github.com/banzaicloud/koperator/tree/master/charts/kafka-operator#configuration) for details on custom configuration for the operator.
```

Author: fixed in 2fcad2ad6824e86564597d3ab4a8c318b7102fda

## Uninstall via the CLI

> Uninstalling the Kafka operator will not affect existing `KafkaCluster` deployments. After uninstalling the operator, you will need to manually remove any leftover Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs) from the operator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Uninstalling the Kafka operator does not affect existing `KafkaCluster` deployments. After uninstalling the operator, you must manually remove any remaining Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs) from the operator.
```

Author: fixed in 2fcad2ad6824e86564597d3ab4a8c318b7102fda

> 1.  Delete all Kafka custom resources that are deployed, see [Deleting Kafka Custom Resources](../../../../projects/applications/catalog-applications/custom-resources-workspace-catalog/kafka#deleting-kafka-custom-resources).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Delete all Kafka custom resources that are deployed (see [Deleting Kafka Custom Resources](../../../../projects/applications/catalog-applications/custom-resources-workspace-catalog/kafka#deleting-kafka-custom-resources)).
```

Author: fixed in 2fcad2ad6824e86564597d3ab4a8c318b7102fda

> 1.  Uninstalling a Kafka operator `AppDeployment`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Uninstall a Kafka operator `AppDeployment`:
```

Author: fixed in 2fcad2ad6824e86564597d3ab4a8c318b7102fda

    ```bash
    kubectl -n <workspace namespace> delete AppDeployment <name of AppDeployment>
    ```

> 1.  Removing Kafka CRDs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Remove Kafka CRDs:
```

Author: fixed in 2fcad2ad6824e86564597d3ab4a8c318b7102fda

>     <p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>the CRDs are not finalized for deletion until you delete the associated custom resources.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>The CRDs are not finalized for deletion until you delete the associated custom resources.</p>
```

Author: fixed in 2fcad2ad6824e86564597d3ab4a8c318b7102fda

    ```bash
    kubectl delete crds kafkaclusters.kafka.banzaicloud.io kafkausers.kafka.banzaicloud.io kafkatopics.kafka.banzaicloud.io
    ```

## Resources

- [Kafka Operator Documentation](https://banzaicloud.com/docs/supertubes/kafka-operator/)
- [Kafka Operator GitHub Repository](https://github.com/banzaicloud/koperator)
- [Sample Kafka Operator Custom Resources](https://github.com/banzaicloud/koperator/tree/master/config/samples)

> - [Apache Kafka Documentation](https://kafka.apache.org/)

Reviewer: Probably doesn't make too huge of a difference, but this link goes straight to their docs. Also, not related, but the Kafka Operator for short goes by Koperator, which is just funny to me.

```suggestion
- [Apache Kafka Documentation](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/)
```

Author: good call, fixed in 2fcad2ad6824e86564597d3ab4a8c318b7102fda. 😆

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Kafka Operator
title: Kafka Operator
menuWeight: 20
excerpt: Information about the Kafka Operator
---

## Overview

[Apache Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/) is an open-source distributed event streaming platform used for high-performance data pipelines, streaming analytics, data integration, and mission-critical applications. The [Kafka Operator](https://banzaicloud.com/docs/supertubes/kafka-operator/) is a Kubernetes operator to automate provisioning, management, autoscaling, and operations of Apache Kafka clusters deployed to Kubernetes. It works by watching custom resources, such as `KafkaClusters`, `KafkaUsers`, and `KafkaTopics`, to provision underlying Kubernetes resources (i.e `StatefulSets`) required for a production-ready Kafka Cluster.

## Install

> These install instructions describe how to install the Kafka operator in a workspace. After following the install instructions, you will have the Kafka operator running in a workspace namespace, ready to manage and create Kafka clusters in any project namespaces. See the [Kafka custom resource documentation](../../../../projects/applications/catalog-applications/custom-resources-workspace-catalog/kafka/) for more information on creating Kafka clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to install the Kafka operator in a workspace. This procedure results in a Kafka operator running in a workspace namespace, ready to manage and create Kafka clusters in any project namespaces. See the [Kafka custom resource documentation](../../../../projects/applications/catalog-applications/custom-resources-workspace-catalog/kafka/) for more information on creating Kafka clusters.
```

1.  Follow the generic installation instructions for workspace catalog applications on the [Application Deployment](../application-deployment/) page.

1.  Within the `AppDeployment`, update the `appRef` to specify the correct `kafka-operator` App. You can find the `appRef.name` by listing the available `Apps` in the workspace namespace:

    ```bash
    kubectl get apps -n ${WORKSPACE_NAMESPACE}
    ```

Refer to the [Kafka operator Helm Chart documentation](https://github.com/banzaicloud/koperator/tree/master/charts/kafka-operator#configuration) for details on custom configuration for the operator.

## Uninstall via the CLI

Uninstalling the Kafka operator does not affect existing `KafkaCluster` deployments. After uninstalling the operator, you must manually remove any remaining Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs) from the operator.

> 1.  Delete all Kafka custom resources that are deployed (see [Deleting Kafka Custom Resources](../../../../projects/applications/catalog-applications/custom-resources-workspace-catalog/kafka#deleting-kafka-custom-resources)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  Delete all of the deployed Kafka custom resources (see [Deleting Kafka Custom Resources](../../../../projects/applications/catalog-applications/custom-resources-workspace-catalog/kafka#deleting-kafka-custom-resources)).
```
